                                                                                                   Introduction
Need of java:
Language:  It is used for communication between two people.
Programming language: It is used for communication between humans and systems. Communicating with a system means giving commands using software i.e using software. And to develop that software we required a programming language.

Need of java:
Using C language if we develop software that software we can run on the same o.s because C language is platform dependent.
So if we have to develop platform independent software we have to use java.


Features of java:-

1.	Simple:
		Java is simple as a learner because its syntax is the same as C,C++ so learners can easily understand and it is easy as a developer because they have removed pointers so it’s easy to program.
   
2. Platform Independent:
		Java is platform independent because compiled code of java we can run on any os. Because compiled code of java does not contain machine instructions, it contains bytecode which does not belong to any os. Java achieves platform independence because of Byte code.
		In java byte code is platform independent but JVM is platform dependent i.e each os has its own JVM.

3. Architectural neutral:
		There are no implementation dependent features e.g. size of primitive types is fixed.
    In C programming, int data type occupies 2 bytes of memory for 32-bit architecture and 4 bytes of memory for 64-bit architecture. But in java, it occupies 4 bytes of memory for both 32 and 64 bit architectures.
    Hence java is architectural neutral with respect to memory management.

4. Robust:
	  Robust simply means strong. Java uses strong memory management. There is a lack of pointers that avoids security problems. There is automatic garbage collection in java. There is exception handling and type checking mechanism in java. All these points make java robust.

5. Portable:
    We may carry the java bytecode to any platform.

6. Distributed:
   We can create distributed applications in java. RMI and EJB are used for creating distributed applications. We may access files by calling the methods from any machine on the internet.

7. Multi-threaded:
   A thread is like a separate program, executing concurrently. We can write Java programs that deal with many tasks at once by defining multiple threads.
   The main advantage of multi-threading is that it doesn't occupy memory for each thread. It shares a common memory area. Threads are important for multimedia, Web applications etc.

8. Secure:
   Java is secure because :
   a.	Removed pointer
   b.	Byte code verifier which checks whether the byte code is generated by proper compiler or not.
   c.	Along with this they have given four specifiers public, private, protected and default.	
